---
title: "Grafana Mimir version 2.16 release notes"
menuTitle: "V2.16 release notes"
description: "Release notes for Grafana Mimir version 2.16"
weight: 1100
---

# Grafana Mimir version 2.16 release notes

<!-- vale Grafana.GoogleWill = NO -->
<!-- vale Grafana.Timeless = NO -->
<!-- Release notes are often future focused -->

Grafana Labs is excited to announce version 2.16 of Grafana Mimir.

The highlights that follow include the top features, enhancements, and bug fixes in this release.
For the complete list of changes, refer to the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Features and enhancements

In rulers, when rule concurrency is enabled for a rule group, its rules are now reordered and run in batches based on their dependencies.
This increases the number of rules that can run concurrently.
Note that the global and tenant-specific limits around the number of rule groups and rules per group still apply.

Using `mimirtool` to analyze Grafana dashboards now supports bar chart, pie chart, state timeline, status history, histogram, candlestick, canvas, flame graph, geomap, node graph, trend, and XY chart panels.

## Important changes

In Grafana Mimir 2.16, the following behavior has changed:

Grafana Mimir only provides container images based on [distroless](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/distroless) images. Alpine Linux-based container images were deprecated in the 2.12 release and are no longer built.

How experimental PromQL functions are enabled has changed.

- The experimental CLI flags `-querier.promql-experimental-functions-enabled` and `-query-frontend.block-promql-experimental-functions` and their respective YAML configurations have been removed from query-frontends and queriers.
- Experimental PromQL functions are disabled by default. You can enable them using only the `enabled_promql_experimental_functions` per-tenant setting.

Support for native histograms and out-of-order native histograms is enabled by default in ingesters.

Distributors discard float and histogram samples with duplicated timestamps from each timeseries in a request before the request is forwarded to ingesters.
Discarded samples are tracked by `cortex_discarded_samples_total` metrics with the reason `sample_duplicate_timestamp`.

## Experimental features

Grafana Mimir 2.16 includes some features that are experimental and disabled by default.
Use these features with caution and report any issues that you encounter:

Distributors now include experimental support for the Influx [line protocol](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/reference/syntax/line-protocol/).

Query-frontends now include experimental support to "spin off" subqueries as actual range queries, so that they benefit from query acceleration techniques such as sharding, splitting, and caching.

## Bug fixes

- Distributor: Use a boolean to track changes while merging the ReplicaDesc components, rather than comparing the objects directly. #10185
- Querier: Fix timeout responding to the query-frontend when the response size is within a few hundred bytes of `-querier.frontend-client.grpc-max-send-msg-size`. #10154
- Query-frontend and querier: Show warning and info annotations in some cases where they were missing (if a lazy querier was used). #10277
- Query-frontend: Fix an issue where transient errors are inadvertently cached. #10537 #10631
- Ruler: Fix indeterminate rules always, instead of never, running concurrently when `-ruler.max-independent-rule-evaluation-concurrency` is set. https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/15560 #10258
- PromQL: Fix various UTF-8 bugs related to quoting. https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/15531 #10258
- Ruler: Fix an issue when using the experimental `-ruler.max-independent-rule-evaluation-concurrency` feature, where if a rule group was eligible for concurrency, it would flap between running concurrently or not based on the time it took after running concurrently. #9726 #10189
- Mimirtool: `remote-read` commands now return data. #10286
- PromQL: Fix deriv, predict_linear and double_exponential_smoothing with histograms https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/15686 #10383
- MQE: Fix deriv with histograms. #10383
- PromQL: Fix <aggr_over_time> functions with histograms. https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/15711 #10400
- MQE: Fix <aggr_over_time> functions with histograms. #10400
- Distributor: Return HTTP status 415, Unsupported Media Type, instead of 200, Success, for Remote Write 2.0 until we support it. #10423 #10916
- Query-frontend: Add `-query-frontend.prom2-range-compat` flag and corresponding YAML to rewrite queries with ranges that worked in Prometheus 2 but are invalid in Prometheus 3. #10445 #10461 #10502
- Distributor: Fix edge case at the HA-tracker with memberlist as KVStore, where when a replica in the KVStore is marked as deleted but not yet removed, it fails to update the KVStore. #10443
- Distributor: Fix panics in `DurationWithJitter` util functions when computed variance is zero. #10507
- Ingester: Fixed a race condition in the `PostingsForMatchers` cache that may have infrequently returned expired cached postings. #10500
- Distributor: Report partially converted OTLP requests with status 400, Bad Request. #10588
- Ruler: Fix issue where rule evaluations could be missed while shutting down a ruler instance if that instance owns many rule groups. prometheus/prometheus#15804 #10762
- Ingester: Add additional check on reactive limiter queue sizes. #10722
- TSDB: Fix unknown series errors and possible lost data during WAL replay when series are removed from the head due to inactivity and reappear before the next WAL checkpoint. https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/16060 #10824
- Querier: Fix issue where `label_join` could incorrectly return multiple series with the same labels rather than failing with `vector cannot contain metrics with the same labelset`. https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/15975 #10826
- Querier: Fix issue where counter resets on native histograms could be incorrectly under or over-counted when using subqueries. https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pull/15987 #10871
- Ingester: Fix goroutines and memory leak when experimental ingest storage is enabled and a server-side error occurs during metrics ingestion. #10915
- Mimirtool: Fix issue where `MIMIR_HTTP_PREFIX` environment variable was ignored and the value from `MIMIR_MIMIR_HTTP_PREFIX` was used instead. #10207
- Update to Go v1.23.9 to address [CVE-2025-22871](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22871). #11543
- Update `golang.org/x/net` to v0.38.0 to address [CVE-2025-22872](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22872). #11281
- Query-frontend: Fix a panic in monolithic mode caused by a clash in labels of the `cortex_client_invalid_cluster_validation_label_requests_total` metric definition. #11455

### 2.16.2

- Security: Update to Go v1.23.12 to address [CVE-2025-22871](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22871), [CVE-2025-4673](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-4673), [CVE-2025-0913](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-0913). #12582
- Security: Update Docker base images for tools from `alpine:3.21.3` to `alpine:3.21.5` to address [CVE-2025-9230](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-9230), [CVE-2025-9231](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-9231), [CVE-2025-2025-9232](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-9232). #12990

### Helm chart improvements

The Grafana Mimir and Grafana Enterprise Metrics Helm chart is released independently.
Refer to the [Grafana Mimir Helm chart documentation](/docs/helm-charts/mimir-distributed/latest/).
