tools/copyblocks/README.md, before:

# Copyblocks

This program can copy Mimir blocks between two buckets.

By default, the copy will be attempted server-side if both the source and destination specify the same object storage service. If the buckets are on different object storage services, or if `--client-side-copy` is passed, then the copy will be performed client side.

The currently supported services are Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3 and S3-compatible), Azure Blob Storage (ABS), and Google Cloud Storage (GCS).

## Features

- Prevents copying blocks multiple times to the same destination bucket by uploading block marker files to the source bucket
- Runs continuously with periodic checks when supplied a time duration with `--copy-period`, otherwise runs one check then exits
- Include or exclude users from having blocks copied (`--enabled-users` and `--disabled-users`)
- Configurable minimum block duration (`--min-block-duration`) and (`--skip-no-compact-block-duration-check`) to target blocks that are not awaiting compaction
- Configurable time range (`--min-time` and `--max-time`) to only copy blocks inclusively within a provided range
- Log what would be copied without actually copying anything with `--dry-run`

## Running

Running `go build` in this directory builds the program. Then use an example below as a guide.

### Example for Google Cloud Storage

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend gcs \
  --destination.backend gcs \
  --gcs.source.bucket-name <source bucket name> \
  --gcs.destination.bucket-name <destination bucket name> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```

### Example for Azure Blob Storage

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend azure \
  --destination.backend azure \
  --azure.source.container-name <source container name> \
  --azure.source.account-name <source account name> \
  --azure.source.account-key <source account key> \
  --azure.destination.container-name <destination container name> \
  --azure.destination.account-name <destination account name> \
  --azure.destination.account-key <destination account key> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```

### Example for Amazon Simple Storage Service

The destination is called to intiate the server-side copy which may require setting up additional permissions for the copy to have access the source bucket.
Consider passing `--client-side-copy` to avoid having to deal with that.

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend s3 \
  --destination.backend s3 \
  --s3.source.bucket-name <source bucket name> \
  --s3.source.access-key-id <source access key id> \
  --s3.source.secret-access-key <source secret access key> \
  --s3.source.endpoint <source endpoint> \
  --s3.destination.bucket-name <destination bucket name> \
  --s3.destination.access-key-id <destination access key id> \
  --s3.destination.secret-access-key <destination secret access key> \
  --s3.destination.endpoint <destination endpoint> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```

### Example for copying between different providers

Combine the relevant source and destination configuration options using the above examples as a guide.
For instance, to copy from S3 to ABS:

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend s3 \
  --destination.backend azure \
  --s3.source.bucket-name <source bucket name> \
  --s3.source.access-key-id <source access key> \
  --s3.source.secret-access-key <source secret access key> \
  --s3.source.endpoint <source endpoint> \
  --azure.destination.container-name <destination container name> \
  --azure.destination.account-name <destination account name> \
  --azure.destination.account-key <destination account key> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```

Commit message:

copyblocks: support copying between tenants (#10110)
* copyblocks: support copying between tenants

* Update tools/copyblocks/README.md

* Update tools/copyblocks/README.md

Co-authored-by: Taylor C <41653732+tacole02@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address feedback

---------

Co-authored-by: Taylor C <41653732+tacole02@users.noreply.github.com>

tools/copyblocks/README.md, after:

# Copyblocks

This program can copy Mimir blocks between two buckets.

By default, the copy will be attempted server-side if both the source and destination specify the same object storage service. If the buckets are on different object storage services, or if `--client-side-copy` is passed, then the copy will be performed client side.

The currently supported services are Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3 and S3-compatible), Azure Blob Storage (ABS), and Google Cloud Storage (GCS).

## Features

- Prevents copying blocks multiple times to the same destination bucket by uploading block marker files to the source bucket
- Runs continuously with periodic checks when supplied a time duration with `--copy-period`, otherwise runs one check then exits
- Include or exclude users from having blocks copied (`--enabled-users` and `--disabled-users`)
- Configurable minimum block duration (`--min-block-duration`) and (`--skip-no-compact-block-duration-check`) to target blocks that are not awaiting compaction
- Configurable time range (`--min-time` and `--max-time`) to only copy blocks inclusively within a provided range
- Copy blocks between users with `--user-mapping`. For instance, `--user-mapping="user1:user2,user3:user4"` maps source blocks from `user1` to `user2` and source blocks from `user3` to `user4`. If you don't provide a mapping for a user, it is assumed to be identical to the source user.
- Log what would be copied without actually copying anything with `--dry-run`

## Running

Running `go build` in this directory builds the program. Then use an example below as a guide.

### Example for Google Cloud Storage

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend gcs \
  --destination.backend gcs \
  --gcs.source.bucket-name <source bucket name> \
  --gcs.destination.bucket-name <destination bucket name> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```

### Example for Azure Blob Storage

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend azure \
  --destination.backend azure \
  --azure.source.container-name <source container name> \
  --azure.source.account-name <source account name> \
  --azure.source.account-key <source account key> \
  --azure.destination.container-name <destination container name> \
  --azure.destination.account-name <destination account name> \
  --azure.destination.account-key <destination account key> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```

### Example for Amazon Simple Storage Service

The destination is called to intiate the server-side copy which may require setting up additional permissions for the copy to have access the source bucket.
Consider passing `--client-side-copy` to avoid having to deal with that.

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend s3 \
  --destination.backend s3 \
  --s3.source.bucket-name <source bucket name> \
  --s3.source.access-key-id <source access key id> \
  --s3.source.secret-access-key <source secret access key> \
  --s3.source.endpoint <source endpoint> \
  --s3.destination.bucket-name <destination bucket name> \
  --s3.destination.access-key-id <destination access key id> \
  --s3.destination.secret-access-key <destination secret access key> \
  --s3.destination.endpoint <destination endpoint> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```

### Example for copying between different providers

Combine the relevant source and destination configuration options using the above examples as a guide.
For instance, to copy from S3 to ABS:

```bash
./copyblocks \
  --source.backend s3 \
  --destination.backend azure \
  --s3.source.bucket-name <source bucket name> \
  --s3.source.access-key-id <source access key> \
  --s3.source.secret-access-key <source secret access key> \
  --s3.source.endpoint <source endpoint> \
  --azure.destination.container-name <destination container name> \
  --azure.destination.account-name <destination account name> \
  --azure.destination.account-key <destination account key> \
  --copy-period 24h \
  --min-block-duration 13h \
  --dry-run
```
