---
title: "Grafana Mimir Helm chart version 5.7 release notes"
menuTitle: "V5.7 release notes"
description: "Release notes for Grafana Mimir Helm chart version 5.7"
weight: 300
---

# Grafana Mimir Helm chart version 5.7 release notes

Grafana Labs is excited to announce version 5.7 of the Grafana Mimir Helm chart, which is compatible with Grafana Mimir v2.16 and Grafana Enterprise Metrics (GEM) v2.16. The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart is the best way to install Mimir on Kubernetes.

The highlights that follow include the top features, enhancements, and bug fixes in this release. For a comprehensive list of changes, see the [Helm chart changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/tree/main/operations/helm/charts/mimir-distributed/CHANGELOG.md).

## Important changes

The ring heartbeat timeout for store-gateways has been increased to 10 minutes.

Memcached has been updated to version 1.6.34.

All Memcached statefulsets now default to three replicas in `small.yaml` and `large.yaml`.

Hostnames for Memcached instances now include the `global.clusterDomain` setting.

## Features and enhancements

Individual mimir components can override their container images via the \*.image values. The component's image definitions always override the values set in global `image` or `enterprise.image`.

All components can expose additional ports with their respective services via the \*.service.extraPorts values. This allows exposing the containers that components declare in `extraContainers`.

An optional Helm update job for provisioning tenants in Grafana Enterprise Metrics has been added.
