---
title: "Grafana Mimir version 2.1 release notes"
menuTitle: "V2.1 release notes"
description: "Release notes for Grafana Mimir version 2.1"
weight: 200
---

# Grafana Mimir version 2.1 release notes

Grafana Labs is excited to announce version 2.1 of Grafana Mimir, the most scalable, most performant open source time series database in the world. 

Below we highlight the top features, enhancements and bugfixes in this release, as well as relevant callouts for those upgrading from Grafana Mimir 2.0. 

The complete list of changes is recorded in the [Changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Features and enhancements

- **Mimir on ARM**: The `mimir build` command now builds both amd64 and arm64 Docker images, making it easier for those on arm-based machines to develop and run Mimir. Both amd64 and arm64 images will now be published to the [Mimir docker registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/grafana/mimir). Note that our existing integration test suite only uses the amd64 images, which means we cannot make any functional or performance guarantees about the arm64 images.  

- **`Remote` ruler mode for improved rule evaluation performance**: We've added a `remote` mode for the Grafana Mimir ruler, in which the ruler delegates rule evaluation to the [query-frontend]({{< relref "../operators-guide/architecture/components/query-frontend/index.md" >}}) rather than evaluating rules directly within the ruler process itself. This allows recording and alerting rules to benefit from the query parallelization techniques implemented in the query-frontend (like query sharding). `Remote` mode is considered experimental and is off by default. To enable, see [remote ruler]({{< relref "../operators-guide/architecture/components/ruler/#remote" >}}).

- **Per-tenant custom trackers for monitoring cardinality**: In Grafana Mimir 2.0, we introduced a [custom tracker feature]({{< relref "../operators-guide/configuring/configuring-custom-trackers.md" >}}) that allows you to track the count of active series over time that match a specific label matcher. In Grafana Mimir 2.1, we've made it possible to configure custom trackers via the [runtime configuration file]({{< relref "../operators-guide/configuring/about-runtime-configuration.md" >}}). This means you can now define different trackers for each tenant in your cluster and modify those trackers without an ingester restart.

## Upgrade considerations



## Bug fixes

### 2.1.0 bug fixes

Version 2.1.0 fixes these bugs:

- [PR 424](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/424): Fixed a bug where cached results for step-aligned queries were used to respond to unaligned queries, causing the user to receive incorrect results. The new configuration parameter `query-frontend.cache-unaligned-requests` safely enables the caching of query results, even when the query step is not aligned.

- [PR 224](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/224): Fixed a race condition in the Alertmanager, which sometimes resulted in a tenant’s configuration being replaced with the blank fallback configuration.

- [PR 551](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/551): Fixed a bug in `memberlist` that caused large messages to be corrupted. This bug fix, in addition to the memberlist performance optimizations, enabled us to switch to `memberlist` as the default store for Grafana Mimir’s hash rings.
