# Benchtool

The `benchtool` is a small load testing utility to generate load for Prometheus
remote-write and query API endpoints. It uses a statically configured YAML
workload file to describe the series and queries used for the generate load.

**warning:** the specifications outlined here are subject to change. It is
likely the specs in this file will require some adjustment to accomodate
expanded functionality and this should not be consided stable.

## Workload file

The workload file can be configured as a follows:

```yaml
replicas: "<int>"
queries:
  - expr_template: "<string>"
    interval: "<duration>"
    num_queries: "<int>"
    series_type: "<enum series-type>"
    regex: "<bool>"
series:
  - name: "<string>"
    type: "<enum series-type>"
    static_labels:
      "<string>": "<string>"
    labels:
      - name: "<string>"
        unique_values: "<int>"
        value_prefix: "<string>"
write_options:
  batch_size: "<int>"
  interval: "<duration>"
```

### Series

The series configuration section of the workload is used to configure the
metrics generated by the workload. It is a list of series objects that allow the
workload author to declare name and characteristics of each series the workload
will generate.

- **name** is the metric name of the series that will generated. The name will
  be used as the reserved `__name__` label for each series generated using this
  series config.
- **type** references the type of series that will be generated and the
  characteristics of it's underlying data. See the [series type
  section](#series-type) for more information.
- **static_labels** is a map of string values to string keys. These will be
  added as labels to each series generated from this series description.
- **labels** is field that allows for the input of a list of label descriptions.
  The series generated from this series description will be based on the result
  of all possible combinations of the provided label descriptions.
  - **name** refers to the label name of the generated label.
  - **unique_values** referes to the number of values to generate for this
    label.
  - **value_prefix** refers to the prefix that will used for each generated
    label value. The resultant label value will be the prefix appended with
    `-<integer>`, where the integer is a value between `0` and the configured
    `unique_values`.

#### Series types

Series types are used in both the series and queries section of the workload.
The denote the character and properties of the data of the generated or queried
series. The following series types are supported.

- *gauge-zero*: correlates to a gauge series that will contantly be zero. This
  is a commonly seen pattern in Prometheus info metrics.
- *gauge-random*: correlates to a gauge series that constant changes to a random
  value. The values is chosen using `rand.Float64`.
- *counter-one* correlates to a counter that increases by 1 at every interval.
- *counter-random* correlates to a counter that increases by a random amount
  every interval. The random amount is not constant and is currently chosen
  using `rand.Int()`.

### Global options

- **replicas**: Replicas is meant to be a stand in for the host label. For each
value between 0 and the configured replica value, a `bench_replica` label will
be added and appended to each generated series. This label will also be used for
queries configured to use regular expressions.

### Queries

The query workload is made up of a list of configured queries. Queries have a
variety of options that can be configured to get the desired behavior.

- **series_type:** Series type to use for this query. A series name generated
  from the `series` section of the Cortex config will be chosen and used for
  each generated query.
- **expr_template** is used to configure the query expression that will be run.
  It uses a modified [Go text template](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/)
  to allow for the name of a series and a matcher to be injected into the query.
  The name will be sourced from the series name and the matcher will be a match
  on the `bench_replicas` label.
- **regex** is a boolean value that, if enabled, will cause the injected
  `bench_replica` matcher on the query to be a regex match on a single replica
  instead of an exact matcher.
- **interval:** Interval at which each instantiation of this query description
  will run. A random jitter no greater than half the configured interval is
  applied before the first run of each query to ensure that queries are not all
  scheduled to run simultaneously.
- **num_queries:** Number of replicas to run of this configured query. Each
  instance of the generated query will select a random series with the same
  series type. Each query will also apply a unique random jitter on the interval
  before it's first run.

### Write options

- **batch_size** determines the number of samples send in each remote-write
  request.
- **interval** is the duration period between when each batch of remote-write
  requests are generated and queued to be sent.

### Example workload file

```yaml
---
queries:
  - expr_template: sum(<<.Name>>{<<.Matchers>>})
    interval: 1m
    num_queries: 3
    series_type: gauge-random
  - expr_template: sum(<<.Name>>{<<.Matchers>>})
    interval: 1m
    num_queries: 5
    series_type: gauge-zero
    time_range: 2h
replicas: 5
series:
  - labels:
      - name: label_01
        unique_values: 5
        value_prefix: label_value_01
      - name: label_02
        unique_values: 20
        value_prefix: label_value_02
    name: metric_gauge_random_01
    static_labels:
        static: "true"
    type: gauge-random
  - labels:
      - name: label_01
        unique_values: 5
        value_prefix: label_value_01
      - name: label_02
        unique_values: 20
        value_prefix: label_value_02
    name: metric_gauge_zero_01
    static_labels:
        static: "true"
    type: gauge-zero
write_options:
    batch_size: 1000
    interval: 15s
```

## Consistency

To ensure results are consistent between runs, the seed of the random number
generator used by the workload is determined by the configured `-bench.id` flag
value of the benchtool instance.

This will ensure two `benchtool` processes run with the same id and workload
config file will result in the same behavior between runs.
